The features added to C# 3.0 were mostly centered on `Language-Integrated Query` [[LINQ]] capabilities. LINQ enables queries to be written directly within a C# program and checked statically for correctness, and query both local collections (such a list or XML documents) or remote data sources (such as a database). The C# 3.0 features added to support LINQ comprised implicitly typed local variables, anonymous types, object initializers, lambda expressions, extension methods, query expressions, and expression trees.

### Implicitly typed local variables

let you omit the variable type in a declaration statement, allowing the compiler to infer it. This reduces clutter as well as allows anonymous types, which are simple classes created on the fly that are commonly used in the final output of LINQ queries.

### Object initializers

simplify object construction by allowing you to set properties inline after the constructor call. Object initializers work with both named and anonymous types.

```csharp
Cat cat = new Cat { Age = 10, Name = "Fluffy" };
Cat sameCat = new Cat("Fluffy"){ Age = 10 };
```

### Lambda expressions

Lambda expressions are miniature functions created by the compiler on the fly, they are particularly useful in "fluent" LINQ queries.

note: The term "fluent" often describes a method of writing code that flows naturally, almost like reading a sentence in English. In LINQ, this is achieved through method chaining, where each method returns an object that can have more methods called on it.

### Extension methods

Extend an existing type with new methods (without altering the type's definition), making static methods fee like instance methods. LINQ's query operators are implemented as extension methods.

### Query expressions

Provide a higher-level syntax for writing LINQ queries that can be substantially simpler when working with multiple sequences or range variables.

### Expressions Trees

[[Expressions Tree]] is miniature code Document Object Models (DOMs) that describe lambda expressions assigned to the special type `Expression<TDelegate>`. Expression trees make it possible for LINQ queries to execute remotely (e.g., on a database server) because they can be introspected and translated at runtime (e.g., into a SQ statement).

### Automatic properties

Cut the work in writing properties that simply `get/set` a private backing field by having the complier do that work automatically.

### Partial methods

Let an autogenerated partial class provide customizable hooks for manual authoring that "melt away" if unused.

#csharp #dotnet 